Something I see right away
is that we're still creating
arrays over and over again,
is adding to the end and
shifting off the front, is that a problem?
Is that gonna cause a bunch of problems?
Likely that is gonna cause a problem,
cuz if V8 does something tricky,
maybe it doesn't want to
reorder all the indices.
Maybe it has some reasons when it
doesn't reorder the indices, and
you're literally growing one direction,
maybe it's reallocating.
We have no idea what's actually
happening underneath the hood, and so
a linked list test here could be really,
really good.
Should we create a linked list and
actually remove off the front old
fashion computer science style
as opposed to using an array?
There could be something
that's really good here,
we can even use a singly linked list.
So we're not doing a whole
bunch of link breaking,
we're only doing a singular link
breaking every single time,
which would just make it pretty fast,
we could totally do that.
This are just all the thoughts you gotta
start thinking about when it comes to
this level, because at this point,
there's no more free lunches.
Everything is gonna be excessively
difficult to try to win.
And so that's something I would most
certainly try is creating a linked list.
The next thing, which is always pretty
disappointing, there's just C in general,
which is this right here.
So do we ever consider our logging?
I don't know,
are you considering your logging?
Should you have a build step in which some
servers just simply don't have logging?
Some servers have logging, because
every single time we get a collision,
we're creating memory.
We're creating strings,
we're creating things all over the place,
are they gonna be useful?
Are they not useful?
Are you mutating the thing?
So if I just take out all the logging,
what happens now?
And this isn't always a great
idea to take out logging.
I'm not saying you should do that, but
you should potentially consider having
a switch for when logging should and
should not exist.
And so we can most certainly
take out this kind of stuff, and
then see how does this
affect things overall.
Really, it's very funny,
I've seen logging make more
impact than almost anything else.
Here, actually, I'm also gonna
just spring this up a little bit,
let's go up to like 3,000.
Let's just really try to generate
more memory at this point.
>> Is the logger, in this case, the thing
that's writing to your temp directory?
>> Yeah, it's the thing that's writing
to the temp directory, sort of, no, no.
Well, the stuff that's writing the data
to the temp directory is not that.
That is going to be the data writer
that's doing this extra kind of writing.
This one that we're doing right now,
this is just the Pino logger.
So this would be,
I think pretty much every node.js
application in the universe uses Pino for
logging or some variant of that logger,
Bunyan used to be the old one.
So we're gonna let it run for
a little bit longer and hopefully,
we've made a difference.
Also, one thing that you may not
have noticed, when we go back here,
you'll notice that there's always
a small flat spot on run right here.
There's always a small flat spot on run.
Well, then when we removed those arrays,
the flat spot went away.
So we did actually take out the memory
that was being generated and run,
which is shocking that 240,000 arrays
had very little impact into our system.
And so now as you can see,
we have shrunk some things, because now,
add player is becoming a larger section.
This before add player was
this little teeny, tiniest,
thin sliver, this teeniest,
tiniest, thin sliver right here.
And now, after us removing the logger,
it's really, really thick.
Which means proportionally,
that little piece of memory which was
like 1% of the total memory we were
generating is now 20% of the total
memory we're just generating.
Unfortunately, this is one of those
unfortunate parts about flame graphs,
you don't actually,
or icicle charts, or however they
call the ones that are upside down.
You don't actually know
the absolute difference here,
you only see the relative difference.
But the relative difference here is
that we went from just, honestly,
the tiniest amount right here, all
the way to this, that's a big difference.
We are now producing very little memory,
so that means fire.
All that memory that was happening in
fire probably came down, honestly,
I bet we could go in here.
And I'll undo all these changes,
it probably was that line right there.
Let's just take out that one line,
And let's see what happens.
So I'm gonna give it a second to run, that
way we get all the pools kinda generated,
so we don't get any false
positives in this memory.
So now, once the pools have all
been generated, we're feeling good,
we're feeling fast, we're feeling froggy,
we're feeling pooled.
We'll let this thing record for a moment.
By the way, this is something that I
genuinely do is that I'll start making
guesses going, okay, I know this is
generating memory, but I have no idea how
much memory it generates, cuz it's
behind no peg wall, it just exists.
No one ever questions logging until you
question logging, and then you realize,
holy cow, how did logging cost this much?
I had no idea that it should cost this
much, and it can be quite surprising when
you discover these little tidbits along
the way like, this is really expensive.
My other one that I probably should
have considered removing, but I didn't,
was this one right here.
So every single time we have a collision,
which is a hundred times,
150 times per game, and
we have thousands of games,
we create these long form objects
that I don't know how long they live.
So that one probably also could be
something that maybe you want to make it
a bit more compiled conditionally.
Okay, so there we go, so now,
we're back to here, so look at that.
In fact, we actually never even
caught that add, that's funny.
So we never actually ended
up catching that player add,
that was this big last time.
We never even sought on this graph, it
never even got a chance to be collected or
sampled.
So that's how big what we're
doing with logging is.
So I remove those other couple lines and
apparently,
it was just enough to cause it such
that it is a significant portion on.
Let's go like this.
Turn it back off, let's reproduce
that result really quickly.
Always good practice,
reproduce your results,
make sure there's not just
some kind of oopsy-daisy.
So I'm curious if this will make
an actual frames per second or
tick time win at this point.
We're now pooling some objects,
we're now disabling logging in,
say, certain instances.
You could still imagine that if
you're running your own stuff,
you can have logging on some
percentage of the time.
Now, if you have an exceedingly rare
event, this would be really, really sad,
because then you have to wait for
it to hit one of your logging instances.
But often you're not chasing
such a rare event that it's
causing the 0.0001% to crash,
cuz the reality is that node crashes
way more frequently than
whatever that event is.
[LAUGH] We've never had a problem
trying to chase that event.
So we'll let it go for
a little bit longer.
>> There's a question about
the frames per second,
how do you suggest
that's being calculated?
The easy and not so
good approach being using the frame
time from the previous frame?
>> So how we're doing the FPS?
Yeah, the FPS is pretty straightforward
how we're doing, I mean,
I would not write home about this one.
It just simply takes the difference
between the now time or
it just simply takes the next time,
next plus rate.
So 16.666, so I always keep that extra
decimal amount, cuz you wanna keep that
decimal amount going, because it goes
from 16.666 sleeping for 16 to 16.66 plus
16.66 is gonna be 33333, a bunch of 3s,
which means the next leap is gonna be 17.
And then the next one, a bunch of 3s and
bunch of 6s could equal a bunch of 9s or
it equals 1, depending on
which way we're gonna go here.
So we could actually sleep for
15, cuz it'll be 15.09s, and so
it's good to kind of keep
track of these little bits.
I've been bitten by nanoseconds before,
I had to write,
kind of a little sync player for
a real time video player for Netflix.
And as I shoved in enough data at some
point, me just ignoring milliseconds,
it started causing tests to fail or
not milliseconds, nanoseconds.
Once you shove through hundreds
of thousands of frames,
all of a sudden nanos become milliseconds
and now, you're just completely off.
And so it's always good to just keep track
of everything, so is this the best way?
Probably not the best way,
but it's good enough, right?
And if we accidentally go completely over,
I do this, probably also not a good way.
This is probably causing different
results, I haven't measured this,
I have no idea.
And there we go, okay, so
this time we got a completely
different result at this point.
We didn't even measure anything going on.
So I actually have no idea how
much memory you're using anymore.
So let's try doing
a performance quick grab.
So at this point, it looks like we're
using effectively no memory as far as I
can tell, I have no idea.
Again, those numbers are fake news
numbers, I don't I read whatever numbers
are associated with them,
I just try to see what's happening.
And still at this point at as fast as
we're going, update is now, again,
our biggest bottleneck.
So I'm doing 3,000 games, so
we're completely bottlenecked by update,
which is rather shocking.
The function in which made no difference
at all is now the function that is
the slowest.
So could we do a little bit better?
Well, we potentially could.